README.md, before:

# 🎉 Event Management System

[![Hacktoberfest](https://img.shields.io/badge/Hacktoberfest-2025-blueviolet.svg)](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment)](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/issues)
[![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment)](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/network)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment)](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/stargazers)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment)](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/blob/main/LICENSE)

A comprehensive, modern event management system built to help organize, manage, and track events efficiently. Perfect for event planners, organizations, and communities looking to streamline their event management process.

## 🎃 Hacktoberfest 2025

**This repository is participating in Hacktoberfest 2025!** 

We welcome contributions from developers of all skill levels. Whether you're a beginner looking to make your first open source contribution or an experienced developer wanting to add new features, there's something for everyone!

### Quick Start for Contributors
1. ⭐ Star this repository
2. 🍴 Fork the repository
3. 📋 Check out our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)
4. 🐛 Find an issue to work on or suggest a new feature
5. 🚀 Submit your pull request

[**View Hacktoberfest Issues**](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/labels/hacktoberfest) | [**Good First Issues**](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/labels/good%20first%20issue)

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Features](#-features)
- [Tech Stack](#-tech-stack)
- [Installation](#-installation)
- [Usage](#-usage)
- [API Documentation](#-api-documentation)
- [Contributing](#-contributing)
- [Roadmap](#-roadmap)
- [Project Status](#-project-status)
- [License](#-license)
- [Support](#-support)

## ✨ Features

### Current Features
- 📅 **Event Creation & Management**: Create, edit, and delete events with detailed information
- 👥 **User Management**: User registration, authentication, and profile management
- 🎫 **Event Registration**: Allow users to register for events with capacity management
- 📧 **Notifications**: Email notifications for event updates and reminders
- 🔍 **Search & Filter**: Advanced search and filtering options for events
- 📱 **Responsive Design**: Mobile-friendly interface for all devices

### Planned Features (Great for Contributors!)
- 🗓️ **Calendar Integration**: Sync with Google Calendar, Outlook, etc.
- 💳 **Payment Integration**: Stripe/PayPal integration for paid events
- 📊 **Analytics Dashboard**: Event statistics and attendee analytics
- 🎨 **Custom Themes**: Customizable event pages and themes
- 🔔 **Real-time Notifications**: WebSocket-based real-time updates
- 📍 **Location Services**: Map integration and location-based features
- 🎥 **Virtual Events**: Support for online/hybrid events
- 📝 **Event Templates**: Pre-built templates for common event types
- 🏷️ **Tagging System**: Categorize events with tags and categories
- 📈 **Reporting**: Generate detailed reports and export data

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

### Frontend
- **Framework**: React.js / Vue.js / Angular (To be implemented)
- **Styling**: CSS3, Bootstrap / Tailwind CSS
- **State Management**: Redux / Vuex / NgRx
- **Build Tool**: Webpack / Vite

### Backend
- **Runtime**: Node.js
- **Framework**: Express.js / Fastify
- **Database**: MongoDB / PostgreSQL
- **Authentication**: JWT / OAuth 2.0
- **File Storage**: AWS S3 / Cloudinary

### DevOps & Tools
- **Version Control**: Git & GitHub
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions
- **Testing**: Jest, Cypress
- **Documentation**: JSDoc
- **Code Quality**: ESLint, Prettier

## 🚀 Installation

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v20 or higher, v22 LTS recommended)
- npm (v8 or higher) or yarn
- MongoDB / PostgreSQL
- Git

### Local Development Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment.git
   cd Event_Managment
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   yarn install
   ```

3. **Environment Setup**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your configuration
   ```

4. **Database Setup**
   ```bash
   # For MongoDB
   npm run db:setup
   
   # For PostgreSQL
   npm run db:migrate
   ```

5. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   # or
   yarn dev
   ```

6. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:3000`

### Docker Setup (Alternative)

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment.git
cd Event_Managment

# Run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up -d
```

## 📖 Usage

### For Event Organizers
1. **Create Account**: Sign up as an event organizer
2. **Create Event**: Fill in event details, date, location, and capacity
3. **Manage Registrations**: View and manage attendee registrations
4. **Send Updates**: Notify attendees about event changes
5. **Analytics**: View event performance and attendee data

### For Attendees
1. **Browse Events**: Search and filter events by category, date, location
2. **Register**: Sign up for events that interest you
3. **Manage Registrations**: View your registered events and tickets
4. **Receive Updates**: Get notifications about event changes
5. **Provide Feedback**: Rate and review events after attendance

## 📚 API Documentation

### Authentication Endpoints
```
POST /api/auth/register    - User registration
POST /api/auth/login       - User login
POST /api/auth/logout      - User logout
GET  /api/auth/profile     - Get user profile
PUT  /api/auth/profile     - Update user profile
```

### Event Endpoints
```
GET    /api/events         - Get all events
GET    /api/events/:id     - Get specific event
POST   /api/events         - Create new event
PUT    /api/events/:id     - Update event
DELETE /api/events/:id     - Delete event
POST   /api/events/:id/register - Register for event
```

### User Management
```
GET    /api/users          - Get all users (admin)
GET    /api/users/:id      - Get specific user
PUT    /api/users/:id      - Update user
DELETE /api/users/:id      - Delete user
```

[**Full API Documentation**](docs/API.md) (Coming Soon)

## 🤝 Contributing

We love contributions! This project is perfect for:
- 🆕 **First-time contributors**
- 🎓 **Students learning web development**
- 👨‍💻 **Experienced developers**
- 🎨 **UI/UX designers**
- 📝 **Technical writers**

### How to Contribute
1. Read our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)
2. Check our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
3. Look for issues labeled [`good first issue`](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/labels/good%20first%20issue)
4. Fork the repository and create your feature branch
5. Make your changes and add tests
6. Submit a pull request

### Areas Where We Need Help
- 🐛 **Bug Fixes**: Help us squash bugs
- ✨ **New Features**: Implement features from our roadmap
- 📚 **Documentation**: Improve docs and add examples
- 🧪 **Testing**: Add unit and integration tests
- 🎨 **UI/UX**: Improve the user interface and experience
- 🔧 **Performance**: Optimize code and database queries
- 🌐 **Accessibility**: Make the app more accessible
- 🔒 **Security**: Enhance security measures

## 🗺️ Roadmap

### Phase 1: Foundation (Current)
- [x] Project setup and basic structure
- [x] Contributing guidelines and documentation
- [ ] Basic event CRUD operations
- [ ] User authentication system
- [ ] Basic frontend interface

### Phase 2: Core Features
- [ ] Event registration system
- [ ] Email notifications
- [ ] Search and filtering
- [ ] User dashboard
- [ ] Admin panel

### Phase 3: Advanced Features
- [ ] Payment integration
- [ ] Calendar synchronization
- [ ] Mobile app (React Native)
- [ ] Advanced analytics
- [ ] API rate limiting and caching

### Phase 4: Scale & Polish
- [ ] Performance optimization
- [ ] Advanced security features
- [ ] Multi-language support
- [ ] Third-party integrations
- [ ] Enterprise features

## 📊 Project Status

For detailed information about the current development status, completed tasks, and upcoming milestones, see our [Project Status](PROJECT_STATUS.md) page.

**Current Phase**: 🚧 Foundation & Setup (Hacktoberfest 2025)  
**Next Milestone**: Authentication & Database (Target: October 25, 2025)

## 🏆 Contributors

Thanks to all our amazing contributors! 🎉

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

Want to be featured here? [Contribute to the project!](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🆘 Support

### Getting Help
- 📖 **Documentation**: Check our [docs](docs/) folder
- 🐛 **Bug Reports**: [Create an issue](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/issues/new)
- 💡 **Feature Requests**: [Request a feature](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/issues/new)
- 💬 **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/discussions)

### Contact
- **Maintainer**: [@GreenHacker420](https://github.com/GreenHacker420)
- **Email**: [harsh@greenhacker.tech](mailto:harsh@greenhacker.tech)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Thanks to all contributors who help make this project better
- Special thanks to the Hacktoberfest community
- Inspired by modern event management solutions
- Built with ❤️ for the open source community

---

<div align="center">

**⭐ Star this repository if you find it helpful!**

**🍴 Fork it to start contributing!**

**🎃 Happy Hacktoberfest 2025!**

</div>

Commit message:

feat: add Hacktoberfest 2025 labels and validation workflow

README.md, after:

# 🎉 Event Management System

[![Hacktoberfest](https://img.shields.io/badge/Hacktoberfest-2025-blueviolet.svg)](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/)
[![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment)](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/issues)
[![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment)](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/network)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment)](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/stargazers)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment)](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/blob/main/LICENSE)

A comprehensive, modern event management system built to help organize, manage, and track events efficiently. Perfect for event planners, organizations, and communities looking to streamline their event management process.

## 🎃 Hacktoberfest 2025

**This repository is participating in Hacktoberfest 2025!** 

We welcome contributions from developers of all skill levels. Whether you're a beginner looking to make your first open source contribution or an experienced developer wanting to add new features, there's something for everyone!

### ✅ Repository Setup for Hacktoberfest

**Important:** This repository is opted-in for Hacktoberfest 2025. To ensure your PRs count:

1. **Repository Topic**: This repo must have the `hacktoberfest` topic added
   - Go to repository settings → Topics
   - Add `hacktoberfest` as a topic
   - This signals to Hacktoberfest that we're accepting contributions

2. **Automated Labeling**: PRs created during October 2025 will automatically receive the `hacktoberfest-accepted` label

3. **Quality Standards**: All PRs must meet our contribution guidelines to avoid being marked as `spam` or `invalid`

### Quick Start for Contributors
1. ⭐ Star this repository
2. 🍴 Fork the repository
3. 📋 Check out our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) - **Read the Hacktoberfest 2025 requirements!**
4. 🐛 Find an issue to work on or suggest a new feature
5. 🚀 Submit your pull request (must be created Oct 1-31, 2025)

### Important Dates
- **Start**: October 1, 2025 at 10:00 AM UTC
- **End**: October 31, 2025 at 11:59 PM UTC
- **Review Period**: 7 days after PR passes all checks

[**View Hacktoberfest Issues**](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/labels/hacktoberfest) | [**Good First Issues**](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/labels/good%20first%20issue)

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Features](#-features)
- [Tech Stack](#-tech-stack)
- [Installation](#-installation)
- [Usage](#-usage)
- [API Documentation](#-api-documentation)
- [Contributing](#-contributing)
- [Roadmap](#-roadmap)
- [Project Status](#-project-status)
- [License](#-license)
- [Support](#-support)

## ✨ Features

### Current Features
- 📅 **Event Creation & Management**: Create, edit, and delete events with detailed information
- 👥 **User Management**: User registration, authentication, and profile management
- 🎫 **Event Registration**: Allow users to register for events with capacity management
- 📧 **Notifications**: Email notifications for event updates and reminders
- 🔍 **Search & Filter**: Advanced search and filtering options for events
- 📱 **Responsive Design**: Mobile-friendly interface for all devices

### Planned Features (Great for Contributors!)
- 🗓️ **Calendar Integration**: Sync with Google Calendar, Outlook, etc.
- 💳 **Payment Integration**: Stripe/PayPal integration for paid events
- 📊 **Analytics Dashboard**: Event statistics and attendee analytics
- 🎨 **Custom Themes**: Customizable event pages and themes
- 🔔 **Real-time Notifications**: WebSocket-based real-time updates
- 📍 **Location Services**: Map integration and location-based features
- 🎥 **Virtual Events**: Support for online/hybrid events
- 📝 **Event Templates**: Pre-built templates for common event types
- 🏷️ **Tagging System**: Categorize events with tags and categories
- 📈 **Reporting**: Generate detailed reports and export data

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

### Frontend
- **Framework**: React.js / Vue.js / Angular (To be implemented)
- **Styling**: CSS3, Bootstrap / Tailwind CSS
- **State Management**: Redux / Vuex / NgRx
- **Build Tool**: Webpack / Vite

### Backend
- **Runtime**: Node.js
- **Framework**: Express.js / Fastify
- **Database**: MongoDB / PostgreSQL
- **Authentication**: JWT / OAuth 2.0
- **File Storage**: AWS S3 / Cloudinary

### DevOps & Tools
- **Version Control**: Git & GitHub
- **CI/CD**: GitHub Actions
- **Testing**: Jest, Cypress
- **Documentation**: JSDoc
- **Code Quality**: ESLint, Prettier

## 🚀 Installation

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v20 or higher, v22 LTS recommended)
- npm (v8 or higher) or yarn
- MongoDB / PostgreSQL
- Git

### Local Development Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment.git
   cd Event_Managment
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   yarn install
   ```

3. **Environment Setup**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Edit .env with your configuration
   ```

4. **Database Setup**
   ```bash
   # For MongoDB
   npm run db:setup
   
   # For PostgreSQL
   npm run db:migrate
   ```

5. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   # or
   yarn dev
   ```

6. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to `http://localhost:3000`

### Docker Setup (Alternative)

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment.git
cd Event_Managment

# Run with Docker Compose
docker-compose up -d
```

## 📖 Usage

### For Event Organizers
1. **Create Account**: Sign up as an event organizer
2. **Create Event**: Fill in event details, date, location, and capacity
3. **Manage Registrations**: View and manage attendee registrations
4. **Send Updates**: Notify attendees about event changes
5. **Analytics**: View event performance and attendee data

### For Attendees
1. **Browse Events**: Search and filter events by category, date, location
2. **Register**: Sign up for events that interest you
3. **Manage Registrations**: View your registered events and tickets
4. **Receive Updates**: Get notifications about event changes
5. **Provide Feedback**: Rate and review events after attendance

## 📚 API Documentation

### Authentication Endpoints
```
POST /api/auth/register    - User registration
POST /api/auth/login       - User login
POST /api/auth/logout      - User logout
GET  /api/auth/profile     - Get user profile
PUT  /api/auth/profile     - Update user profile
```

### Event Endpoints
```
GET    /api/events         - Get all events
GET    /api/events/:id     - Get specific event
POST   /api/events         - Create new event
PUT    /api/events/:id     - Update event
DELETE /api/events/:id     - Delete event
POST   /api/events/:id/register - Register for event
```

### User Management
```
GET    /api/users          - Get all users (admin)
GET    /api/users/:id      - Get specific user
PUT    /api/users/:id      - Update user
DELETE /api/users/:id      - Delete user
```

[**Full API Documentation**](docs/API.md) (Coming Soon)

## 🤝 Contributing

We love contributions! This project is perfect for:
- 🆕 **First-time contributors**
- 🎓 **Students learning web development**
- 👨‍💻 **Experienced developers**
- 🎨 **UI/UX designers**
- 📝 **Technical writers**

### How to Contribute
1. Read our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md)
2. Check our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
3. Look for issues labeled [`good first issue`](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/labels/good%20first%20issue)
4. Fork the repository and create your feature branch
5. Make your changes and add tests
6. Submit a pull request

### Areas Where We Need Help
- 🐛 **Bug Fixes**: Help us squash bugs
- ✨ **New Features**: Implement features from our roadmap
- 📚 **Documentation**: Improve docs and add examples
- 🧪 **Testing**: Add unit and integration tests
- 🎨 **UI/UX**: Improve the user interface and experience
- 🔧 **Performance**: Optimize code and database queries
- 🌐 **Accessibility**: Make the app more accessible
- 🔒 **Security**: Enhance security measures

## 🗺️ Roadmap

### Phase 1: Foundation (Current)
- [x] Project setup and basic structure
- [x] Contributing guidelines and documentation
- [ ] Basic event CRUD operations
- [ ] User authentication system
- [ ] Basic frontend interface

### Phase 2: Core Features
- [ ] Event registration system
- [ ] Email notifications
- [ ] Search and filtering
- [ ] User dashboard
- [ ] Admin panel

### Phase 3: Advanced Features
- [ ] Payment integration
- [ ] Calendar synchronization
- [ ] Mobile app (React Native)
- [ ] Advanced analytics
- [ ] API rate limiting and caching

### Phase 4: Scale & Polish
- [ ] Performance optimization
- [ ] Advanced security features
- [ ] Multi-language support
- [ ] Third-party integrations
- [ ] Enterprise features

## 📊 Project Status

For detailed information about the current development status, completed tasks, and upcoming milestones, see our [Project Status](PROJECT_STATUS.md) page.

**Current Phase**: 🚧 Foundation & Setup (Hacktoberfest 2025)  
**Next Milestone**: Authentication & Database (Target: October 25, 2025)

## 🏆 Contributors

Thanks to all our amazing contributors! 🎉

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

Want to be featured here? [Contribute to the project!](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🆘 Support

### Getting Help
- 📖 **Documentation**: Check our [docs](docs/) folder
- 🐛 **Bug Reports**: [Create an issue](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/issues/new)
- 💡 **Feature Requests**: [Request a feature](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/issues/new)
- 💬 **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/GreenHacker420/Event_Managment/discussions)

### Contact
- **Maintainer**: [@GreenHacker420](https://github.com/GreenHacker420)
- **Email**: [harsh@greenhacker.tech](mailto:harsh@greenhacker.tech)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Thanks to all contributors who help make this project better
- Special thanks to the Hacktoberfest community
- Inspired by modern event management solutions
- Built with ❤️ for the open source community

---

<div align="center">

**⭐ Star this repository if you find it helpful!**

**🍴 Fork it to start contributing!**

**🎃 Happy Hacktoberfest 2025!**

</div>
